[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Without further ado,
let's jump in.
So, Ember's designed for ambitious apps.
If you go to their website,
you'll see this is their tagline.
And I wanna elaborate on what that means.
And part of understanding that is
understanding where Ember came from.
So one of the first two
commits to the framework
was the source code of another framework.
And that is SproutCore 2.0.
SproutCore was built at Apple, and
later spun off into another company.
But it's what Apple used for
MobileMe and iCloud.
And, in fact, if you go to icloud.com
today, and look at the source code,
you will see it is still SproutCore 2.0.
And one thing that's notable about
these applications if you look at them,
it's a very, very rich experience, and
there's a lot of functionality there.
It's a lot of complexity to manage.
And it's important to understand that
these are Ember's roots, and as a result,
you're not gonna find that your app is
becoming too complex for Ember to handle.
It's designed to make
managing complexity easy.
The abstractions that you deal with in the
Hello World app, the patterns you follow,
will scale up as your app gets bigger,
as you add more to it,
as more users start coming in,
as you have to customize it more.
Everything holds up because it was
designed for the complicated case,
and then we make sure that the simple
case is not too difficult.
And when picking a framework, at least
from my point of view, I care about that.
I would rather build something
that is optimized for
where I'm going than optimized for how
I'm starting out in the very beginning,
because ultimately that's where
you are going to hit problems.
That's where snags are going
to start biting you.
So Ember's also focused on productivity.
All of these framework communities in it.
Anyone who's building a library or
a piece of software of any kind,
you have to pick what your
most important goals are.
And in the case of Ember,
it's not something like performance or
making it as light weight as possible.
The focus is on making sure that
developers can get off the ground and
move fast and
leverage other people's code effectively.
If you want to think about other
web technologies that have
a similar alignment, Rails.
Very similar alignment.
And the idea is developers are expensive.
Leverage their time more effectively and
you're gonna have a good experience.
Another aspect of Ember's
focus on productivity is
its convention over configuration nature.
And what this means is if you've worked
on one Ember app you can shift and
take a look at someone
else's code in their app.
And within a couple minutes,
you're gonna know where everything is,
how to diagnose a problem.
The structure's very much the same,
the idioms are the same.
As opposed to if you use a stitched
together jQuery and Flatiron Director,
and picking micro libraries and
assembling them together.
Everything is custom.
You may be used to Grunt and
they're using Gulp and you may not know
how their deployment process works and
it takes a while to get spun up.
The idea here is everyone
should be on the same page.
Let's not make those individual
little decisions on a per app basis.
Let's reduce the number of decisions and
make the task of building an app
simple without sacrificing capability.
And so you sort of have patterns and you
have a happy path that you can go down.
And if you can stay aligned with the happy
path, you have to write way less code and
things kind of just work out of the box.
So Ember's also aligned
with web standards.
Why is this important?
So we're writing rich applications for
what essentially is
still a document viewer.
That's what the browser is.
That's our programming environment.
And if you compare that to writing
an app for iOS or Android as a platform,
the primitives we have to work with
are divs and functions and objects.
They're not map widget and
navbar and icon.
We use frameworks to bridge that gap
to give ourselves a reasonable
platform to build on top of.
And at the same time,
the browser's getting better.
New JavaScript language
features were officially
adopted as the new language
standard this year.
The browser's getting better.
The language is getting better.
And the hope is that if we look
at these frameworks as shims,
you wanna have alignment
with these web standards.
So eventually, as native promises
become way more performant than native
JavaScript promise libraries, you want to
take out that part of the shim, and then
rest neatly on the native functionality,
and everything should just work.
You don't want to have
to rethink everything.
So that's why it's important to me.
In addition, it helps interoperability
between different apps.
So if we're all on board with,
this is the way a promise works,
that a library that has to use
promises can be used in Angular and
Ember and React and
wherever you need to use it, because we've
adopted this singular idea of how
this problem should be solved.
Ember aims to be a complete solution, and
I will compare Ember to
a library like React.
So React is a great view layer, it's
great for keeping data and DOM in sync.
But if you look at ten
different React apps at random,
they are all very different.
They all may have
different build pipelines,
they may have their code
structured differently.
And as a result, you have to have a lot of
knowledge of how everything fits together.
It's the developer's job to make sure they
take this island of excellence
that Facebook has created, and
get a complete cohesive single
page app setup working.
And the idea with Ember is that we focus
on not only the framework itself, not only
the library that you use to persist data
to an API and to read data from the API.
But the build tools, even the process
of deploying, we wanna have a good
story around that, so that this happy
path is a comprehensive happy path.
From how you write your code to
which transpiler you're using,
to how things are minified, and
even now, deployment and animation.
These all have an advised approach, and
as a result you can rely on things working
together very nicely out of the box.
And this is a big problem to solve,
this is a huge problem.
And you're gonna see today that even
as we start touching on these areas and
going deep, there's so much to know,
and there are things we're gonna not
cover them, because you can't do it in
two days, or four days, or six days.
But it's a big problem to solve, and
the framework is a moving target.
It keeps growing, it keeps improving,
every six weeks there's a new release.
And usually they're a significant
performance improvement, or
new features coming out.
The list of things we want
to do to the framework is
steadily outpacing
the ability to get them done.
And this is a good thing.
This means that there is adoption, and
that there are new use cases
being brought to our attention.
And so it's constantly growing and
improving, and you just need to be aware
of that because I don't think Ember's
going to be done at any
point in the near future.
It's gonna keep trying to
solve the problem better and
evolving to meet today's needs and
tomorrow's.